Add Introduction & security edits (#294)
sylabs/singularity-userdocs: introduction.rst

.. _introduction:

===========================
Introduction to Singularity
===========================

Singularity is a *container* platform. It allows you to create and run
containers that package up pieces of software in a way that is
portable and reproducible. You can build a container using Singularity
on your laptop, and then run it on many of the largest HPC clusters in
the world, local university or company clusters, a single server, in
the cloud, or on a workstation down the hall. Your container is a
single file, and you don't have to worry about how to install all the
software you need on each different operating system and system.

Why use Singularity?
====================

> Singularity was born out of the need to run complex applications on

Reviewer: Perhaps this can be re-worded? Maybe like:

```suggestion
Singularity was created to run complex applications on
```

To me, ^^^ is a little easier to read, but that could be just me.

HPC clusters in a simple, portable, and reproducible way. First
developed at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, it quickly became
popular at other HPC sites, academic sites, and beyond. Singularity is
an open-source project, with a friendly community of developers and
users. The user base continues to expand, with Singularity now used
across industry and academia in many areas of work.

Many container platforms are available, but Singularity is focused on:

  - Verifiable reproducibility and security, using cryptographic
    signatures, an immutable container image format, and in-memory
    decryption.
  - Integration over isolation by default. Easily make use of GPUs, high speed
    networks, parallel filesystems on a cluster or server by default.
  - Mobility of compute. The single file SIF container format is easy
    to transport and share.
  - A simple, effective security model. You are the same user inside a

>     container as outside, and cannot gain additional privelege on the

Reviewer: Typo?

```suggestion
    container as outside, and cannot gain additional privilege on the
```

    host system, by default. Read more about :ref:`security`.

Why use containers?
===================

A Unix operating system is broken into two primary components, the
kernel space, and the user space. The Kernel talks to the hardware,
and provides core system features. The user space is the environment
that most people are most familiar with. It is where applications,
libraries and system services run.

Traditionally you use an operating system that has a fixed combination
of kernel and user space. If you have access to a machine running
CentOS then you cannot install software that was packaged for Ubuntu
on it, because the user space of these distributions is not
compatible. It can also be very difficult to install multiple versions
of the same software, which might be needed to support reproducibility
in different workflows over time.

Containers change the user space into a swappable component. This
means that the entire user space portion of a Linux operating system,
including programs, custom configurations, and environment can be
independent of whether your system is running CentOS, Fedora

> etc. underneath. A Singularity container packages up whatever you need

Reviewer: I think there should be a comma after `etc.`:

```suggestion
etc., underneath. A Singularity container packages up whatever you need
```

system base fits their needs best, and create distributable runtime
environments so that users never have to worry about dependencies and 
requirements, that they might not be able to satisfy on their
systems.

Use Cases
=========

---------------------------------
BYOE: Bring Your Own Environment!
---------------------------------

Engineering work-flows for research computing can be a complicated and
iterative process, and even more so on a shared and somewhat
inflexible production environment. Singularity solves this problem by
making the environment flexible.

Additionally, it is common (especially in education) for schools to
provide a standardized pre-configured Linux distribution to the
students which includes all of the necessary tools, programs, and
configurations so they can immediately follow along.

--------------------
Reproducible science
--------------------

Singularity containers can be built to include all of the programs,
libraries, data and scripts such that an entire demonstration can be
contained and either archived or distributed for others to replicate
no matter what version of Linux they are presently running.

> Commercially supported code requiring a particular environment Some

Reviewer 2: Seems like the first statement on this line should be removed or made into a complete sentence?
